If you've just installed OpenClaw and it
feels kind of limited or if you've been
experimenting with it for a while and
you've just hit a wall, let me tell you
something. Out of the box, OpenClaw
actually doesn't have its own email. It
can't remember what you did last week
and it can't reliably browse the web.
Today I'm going to show you three tools
that completely change that. And I
promise you by the end of this video you
will have a completely different
OpenClaw working for you. So let's dive
in. So, if you caught my last video, I
set up a Mac Mini M4 running OpenClaw as
my 247 AI personal agent. It's got
access to Telegram, my calendar, Task
Manager, my Obsidian Vault. But one
thing I didn't get into was that even
after hooking up all those really cool
skills, there were three big pieces
missing from that setup. Today, I'm
going to show you how to fill in those
gaps. So, here's what we're hooking up.
Number one, we're going to give our
agent its own dedicated email. Number
two, we're going to give the agent a
reliable memory backbone so that it
actually remembers the things that you
do and the things that you work on. And
number three, we're going to give the
agent its own browser, a better browser
that's built specifically for agents so
that it can browse the web faster and
smarter through the command line. Each
one of these only takes a few minutes to
set up. It's really pretty easy, but the
payoff, I promise you, from putting all
these together is huge. Number one is
Agent Mail. This is a really cool
startup that's backed by Y Combinator
and they've done something really
interesting. They've created an email
client that's built specifically for AI
agents. So, you don't have to worry
about setting up a Gmail account and
then having Google ban you because
you're using an agent to actually
control that inbox. This is designed
specifically for use with AI agents.
It's a way for agents to send and
receive emails programmatically through
code. Setting this up is really
straightforward. Just go to agentmail.to
to and click on get started and it will
navigate here where you can just create
an account. You can sign up with Google
and it's really easy. It's free. There
are paid plans but there's a very
generous free tier. Now once you do that
you'll follow a really simple onboarding
process to create your first inbox. You
get three inboxes free with the free
plan. You can name it whatever you want.
It will be whatever your name is at
agentmail.to and that's where OpenClaw
will access emails that you send and
receive to agentmail. Once you've got
your email inbox configured, you're
going to want to write down the name of
that inbox. And you're going to want to
grab an API key from this part of the
agent mail dashboard. Go ahead and copy
that API key. And then we're going to go
into cloud code and give some commands
to set all of this up. Okay. Now, once
you have that, we're going to open up a
terminal window and we're going to paste
this command right here. And I'll put
this in the show notes. So, whatever
computer you have Claw Code running,
this command will navigate to the folder
where OpenClaw is installed. And as I
mentioned before, we're going to be
using clawed code to implement all of
these skills and tools. And you might be
wondering, why not just use OpenClaw to
do this? OpenClaw can improve itself. It
can install its own skills. As you may
know, Anthropic has actually cracked
down on people using their claw
subscriptions with OpenClaw, basically
forcing people to use API keys. So, in
almost all cases, you're not going to be
using your monthly subscription to run
OpenClaw. You're going to be using API
keys, which costs money. Whether you're
using OpenAI, Anthropic, Open Router,
whatever to run OpenClaw, that's why I
like to use Cloud Code in the background
as the engineer to build all the systems
and tools that ultimately power
OpenClaw. So when OpenClaw is running,
it's not burning through a bunch of
tokens to build things. It's executing
systems that have been built precisely
with Claude Code, Codeex, and other
agents. So with that note aside about
why we're using Claude code in the
background for all of this, let's talk
about how we add skills to OpenClaw. You
can do it in two ways. So you can do it
manually. Basically teach OpenClaw how
to use a certain skill. And every skill
is built into a skill.md file. And you
can use clawed code to build that out.
Put all the required language in there
to show openclaw how to use a skill. And
then there's option number two which is
clawub. Now clawub is basically a
repository of skills that you can hook
up to openclaw. Some of these come from
the actual creator of openclaw himself.
Some of these are official skills from
the people that actually write the tools
that it's connecting to like slack and
things like that. And then some of them
are just open source tools created by
users. Now, a word of warning here.
There have been reports of malware being
deployed on this site. So, exercise
caution whenever you download a skill
from Clawub, but we're going to be
installing the agent mail skill from
Claw Hub. And this one comes from the
actual creator of agent mail himself.
And what this skill does is it basically
sets up some scripts that your OpenClaw
can use to interact with agent mail to
send email, check your inbox, and set up
web hooks. Now, in order to use Claw
Hub, you have to install Claw Hub on
your OpenClaw machine. And that is done
through a simple npm command. I'll put
this in the show notes, but it's right
here. You just copy and paste that,
press enter in your terminal, and then
you can use and download any skill from
Claw Hub. But the good news is we don't
have to run any more commands. We're
simply going to feed a prompt to our
Claude code. So, this is the exact
prompt that I'm going to put in the show
notes that you can run to install the
agent mail skill. It basically tells
Claude code to look at the agent mail
documentation in Claw Hub, install and
download the Claw Hub skill and it will
prompt you to give it the API key and
the agent inbox name that we saved
earlier. Once you do that, your OpenClaw
is officially hooked up to agent mail
and we can test it out. So, what I've
done here is I've actually forwarded a
email that I got in my personal email to
my agent mail inbox and this is just a
newsletter about actually how to set up
your first AI agent in OpenClaw. And so,
OpenC Claw is going to see that in agent
mail and it's going to prompt me in
Telegram. And now, as you can see, it's
showing up in my Telegram, alerting me
that this just got dropped in my agent
mail inbox. And now, I'm going to ask it
just basically, give me the main
takeaways from this email. And you can
see it comes back with a really nice
summary of all the key takeaways from
that email. So, there are a ton of
possibilities you can build with agent
mail. Obviously, this is a really simple
personal use case. I'm forwarding
invoices and newsletters and other
things that I get in my day-to-day life
to Jarvis to my openclaw and it's coming
back and giving me actions, summaries,
other things based on those. But you
could build this into your business. You
could have a support inbox where agent
mail is acting as a first line of
defense to field any user inquiries, any
user bugs, things like that, people
reporting about your products. The
possibilities are really endless. Okay,
tool number two, and honestly, this
might be the biggest single upgrade that
you could make to your open claw. So let
me explain the problem first. So right
out of the box, OpenClaw has a memory
system. When you interact with it, it
creates markdown files that it stores in
a local SQLite database. And anytime you
want to ask about previous work,
previous sessions you've run with
OpenClaw, it uses a keyword-based search
to search through those memories. Now
the problem with that is if you're
asking about, hey, what did we do with
XYZ last week? In the actual
conversation didn't use the words XYZ,
the keyword search is going to fail. So
it can easily forget things that you've
worked on. And it gets worse the more
context your agent accumulates. So the
more you interact with OpenClaw and the
more memories you store, the more
bloated your queries get when you're
asking about the history, the more
tokens you burn and it costs a lot of
money. But luckily there is a solution.
This is where QMD comes in. So QMD is an
open- source tool built by Toby Ludkkey,
who is the CEO of Shopify. It's a local
hybrid search engine for markdown files.
It combines three different search
strategies. So, it is using a keyword
search, but it's also layering on top of
that a vector search as well as an LLM
powered re-ranker to give you the best
possible results. Now, you don't need to
worry about the technical details. All
you need to know is that this is a much
better way to interact with and search
your memories in OpenCloud. And the best
part about all this is because it's
open- source, you don't have to pay for
this. There are no API keys. It's all
running locally on your machine. Even
the actual AI part of it, the LLM I
mentioned, these are local models and
they're really small. all. They don't
take up a lot of space on your computer,
so it's super efficient. So, how do you
set this up with OpenCloud? So, there's
a very detailed guide actually in the
OpenCloud docs. But the best part is you
don't have to read any of this. You can
just prompt Claude Code to build it for
you. So, go ahead, open a terminal
window, open Claude Code, and paste this
prompt in. I'll put this in the show
notes, so no need to read it right here.
But basically, we're just asking Claude
Code to read the documentation we just
showed and to set up the QMD skill so
that you can use it going forward. And
once you do that, that's it. You'll have
QMD installed and you can start seeing
the benefits right away. I'd say this is
one upgrade that is absolutely
non-negotiable. All right, the third and
final tool is agent browser. Now, agent
browser is a command line tool built by
Verscell that allows your agent to
browse the web. Now, this is not just
simply pulling HTML and scraping HTML.
This is actually interacting with a
browser like a user would, i.e. clicking
on stuff, taking screenshots, filling
out forms. Now, you might be thinking,
why not just use Playright or whatever
browser that OpenClaw has built in. Now,
Playright is just fine, but if you've
ever used it before, you probably have
seen how it is so token inefficient.
Now, what that means is every time
Playright is interacting with a website,
it is generating a ton of information.
And if your AI agent is hooked up to
Playright, it has to process all that
information, which fills up your
contacts window and gives you ultimately
a worse outcome. Agent browser takes a
completely different approach. Now, we
don't have to get into the technical
details of the how and why, but
basically what you need to know is
everything that Playright can do, Agent
Browser can do it with 93% less tokens
used. That means that your agent can do
a lot more for a lot less. So, in order
to get access to agent browser and to
use it, you need to install agent
browser locally. So, on your OpenClaw
machine, just run this command. And I'll
put this in the show notes. Uh, and once
you do that, you will have agent browser
ready. But there's one more thing we
need to do. The next thing you're going
to want to do is open up Cloud Code and
paste in this prompt. Again, this is
going to be in the show notes for you to
copy and paste into your own openclaw
instance. But what this is basically
doing is it's taking the skills that
Verscell has published for Asian
browser. It's pulling them from GitHub
onto your OpenClaw machine and it's
telling your openclaw how to use them
and how to run a browser. And it's also
telling it that anytime that OpenClaw
needs to interact with the internet or
browse a web page, it should use agent
browser. Once you do that, you will have
the agent browser skills on your local
machine, which you can use with OpenClaw
or any AI agent that you have on there,
including codeex and cloud code. I'm
going to show you a simple command that
we can use in cloud code through agent
browser. You can do the same thing
through your openclaw instance. Because
mine is running on a different machine,
my Mac Mini, I just can't showcase
what's happening locally on that machine
here. All that stuff is happening in the
background. I'll just show you right now
how agent browser works. Okay. So, I'm
going to ask cloud code to use the agent
browser skill. Navigate to hacker news
and tell me what's trending today. Okay.
And you can see it's actually opened
hackernews news.whitecominator.com
through the command line. It's taking a
snapshot or screenshot of that web page.
And then it's closing the browser. And
here you go. It gives me all of the
trending topics for today in a nice
little chart here. So, it's distilled
all that information from just searching
the website through the command line,
taking a screenshot, and it only took 42
seconds to do all of that. All right.
And you see if I run the exact same
query through my Jarvis AI assistant
through OpenClaw, it gives me a nice
neat markdown formatted response of that
chart we just saw in the command line.
Okay, browsing Hacker News is certainly
cool, but that's a very simple demo of
what agent browser can do. There are
some really advanced use cases of where
you can take this thing. I'll just go
over a couple of them briefly here. So
number one, a no API workflow. Basically
any site or service that doesn't have an
API where you actually have to go to a
web console or some dashboard to
interact with. You can use agent browser
to programmatically pull that
information or interact with that
dashboard. So you don't have to open a
browser and do that yourself. Number two
is self-verifying code. So, anytime
you're using Playright to sort of
automate and check front end or changes
that your agent is making to code, your
agent can just use agent browser
instead, take a screenshot, send that to
you, or just validate it itself to make
sure that the changes it made are
actually good. Number three, website
monitoring. Any website where things
change like prices, product listings,
things like that, you can basically use
agent browser to monitor that page.
Number four is not really a use case,
but it's just something to point out for
agent browser. Agent browser does have
some built-in security guard rails,
specifically against prompt injection,
which is huge when you're using an
agentic browser to navigate the web. You
don't want your AI agent getting
poisoned with any prompt injections on
those sites. It's not perfect, but it's
good to know that it's there and it's
providing an extra line of defense. And
number five is a new skill that is
actually available with agent browser,
and that's the electron skill. So, in
addition to being able to control and
interact with a browser, you can
actually use agent browser to control
any electron app on your computer,
whether that be Slack or Notion, VS
Code, Discord. I haven't tested this out
yet, but it sounds really cool. All
right, so there you have it. That's
three tools, three simple but highly
effective upgrades for your OpenClaw.
Agent Mail gives your agent its own
dedicated inbox. QMD gives your agent
real memory and agent browser gives your
agent a better and faster way to browse
the web. Each one took only a few
minutes to set up, but together they
turn a really basic open claw setup into
something that feels like an actually
useful assistant. If I had to pick just
one to start with, I'd start with QMD.
The memory upgrade is the single biggest
quality of life improvement for
OpenClaw. But honestly, hook up all
three. It's totally worth it. If you
found this helpful, drop a comment below
to let me know what tool you're most
excited about for using with OpenC
cloth. And if there's any tools I should
check out, also let me know. I'm always
trying out new stuff and I like to see
what you guys are using. And if you
haven't already, make sure you subscribe
because I've got a lot more content in
the pipeline in the coming weeks for
OpenCloth. Thanks for watching and I'll
see you next